## Rails 5.0 Basics

### Overview
Rails follows convention over configuration:
 * database tables have standardised names  
 * html templates are stored in standardised folders  
 * app code is stored in a standardised architecture, one of the patterns followed is MVC

### MVC Pattern
One of the conventions Rails follows is a pattern that's widely used in software development, called "Model, View, Controller", or MVC.

 * The models write Ruby objects to the database, and read them out again later.  
 * The views show data to users, most often in the form of HTML webpages.  
 * Controllers respond to requests from users, usually by coordinating the model and the view.  


### Rails installation on Linux

From a terminal window we'll install rvm (Ruby Version Manager) - which we'll use to download, compile, install and manage different versions or ruby. To install rvm, first install curl (which we'll use to install rvm), using the following command:

```text
    sudo apt-get install curl
````

Once installed, install rvm with the following two commands:

````text
    gpg --keyserver hkp://keys.gnupg.net --recv-keys 409B6B1796C275462A1703113804BB82D39DC0E3

    \curl -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable

`````

Open a new terminal window, and install ruby

````text
    rvm install 2.3.1
`````

Once installation is complete, open a new terminal window and set the 2.3.1 version of ruby as the default

````text
    rvm use 2.3.1 --default
````

You may get an error: "RVM is not a function... You need to change your terminal emulator preferences to allow login shell." If that happens, you'll need to enable login shell for your terminal. On Ubuntu, from the Menu bar, go through the following steps:

 * "Edit"  
 * "Profile Preferences"  
 * "Command" tab   
 * Check "Run command as a login shell"  
 * Click "Close"  
 * Open another new terminal window so it takes effect  

Now run the 'rvm use 2.3.1 --default' command again.


### Install Rails

Rails comes as a Ruby "gem", which can be installed using the "gem" tool. In your terminal, run:

````text
    gem install rails --version 5.0.0
````

### Install NodeJS

Some libraries that Rails depends on require a JavaScript runtime to be installed. In your terminal, use Ubuntu's package manager to install the nodejs package:

````text
    sudo apt-get install nodejs
````

### Building a Rails blog app

#### Creating a Resource

The resource are the posts that users will be able to create, read, update and delete (CRUD). We can use the rails 'scaffold' command to quickly build the model, view and controller of the resource.

Generic command:

````text
    bin/rails generate scaffold ModelName attribute1:type attribute2:type ...
````

The ModelName is the name of the reource we want the scaffold to create. We can add one or more attributes (specify the attributes name and data type, e.g number, string, etc) that we want the model odject to have.

For the blog:

```text
     bin/rails generate scaffold Post title:string
````


An additional command is required to create the database table that will store the blog's posts.

```text
    bin/rails db:migrate
```
The actual file that needs to be migrated is generated by the scaffold command, look for the "db/migrate/[date]_create_model_name.rb" output when the scaffold command executes. The migrate command will automatically migrate the file and generate the database.

